  SOBIYA N MOGHUL MARCH 24, 2015    
How To Stop Excess Sebum Production
Pimples are caused by an excess of oil, or sebum, which is made by the sebaceous glands that are found around the hair follicles. When too much sebum and dead skin cells clog the follicles, they become irritated and inflamed, resulting in pimples, whiteheads, blackheads and other lesions. This is the reason why acne is more common among people who have oily skin, but it can also affect people with other skin types.
One cannot completely stop the production of sebum, but the amount that is secreted can be reduced. It is important to understand that sebaceous secretions are the only form of natural oils for the skin. They help keep the skin's texture smooth, and prevent ageing. Too much scrubbing scrapes off the sebum, drying the skin.

Here, we list some safe ways to reduce sebum production in the body naturally.
Wash your face to get rid of the excessive oil. It is best to use a mild face cleanser three times a day, and pat your face dry. Also, clean your oily zones three or four times a week.
Use a toner that will cleanse the skin and open clogged pores to help the skin breathe.
Turmeric can also reduce the oil secreted by the sebaceous glands. Just add turmeric to a few drops of lemon juice, and add some water to make a scrub. Apply this paste to acne-affected areas, and let it be for 15 minutes. Wash it off with lukewarm water.
Vitamin A is an essential vitamin that is required for vision, immune function, healthy skin, and good eyesight. It is also used to treat acne. Vitamin A-rich foods include liver, sweet potatoes, milk and milk products, dark leafy vegetables, red pumpkins, dried herbs, dried apricots, musk melons, tomatoes, eggs, mangoes and carrots.
Try face washes with benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid or tea tree oil as the main ingredient, and use them not more than three or four times a day.
You can try cosmetic treatments like peels and light devices to reduce the activity of the sebaceous glands. Also, microneedling with radio frequency can help limit sebum production.
Avoid oily, junk food and dairy products as much as possible. Instead, munch on fresh vegetables and fruits to keep skin problems at bay.
