
Questions

tell my experience and my confidence of this job.


What experience do you have similar to this job?

Can you show me the site you built?

Which tools do you use?


Tell me about yourself
I have participated in Pornography Web Project, Online Shopping Projects, Portal Project, E-Commerce, LiveStreams, Internet Forums,
 Payment Systems and Online Advertising.



What experience do you have similar to this job?

I have experience with this type of project.
I always keep standard code format and focus on qualification.
I intend to qualification, smart interface, SEO optimization and beautiful coding style.
I have worked with 3 developers.
One was backend developer.
one database designer and administrator.
One front end developer.

I have built Ecommerce sites, Advertising Sites, tourist Sites, and Business Portal WebSites.
I have experience with Rest API such as Google Map API, Amazon Adverting API, Shopzilla, BestBuy, 
Prosperent, Paypal API, CNET API, Stripe API and Twilio API.



Can you show me the site you built Or your git account?
Yes, sure
I can show you.
This is the url:







Tell me about yourself
I am a full time freelancer. I usually work 10 hours a day.
I like using Python/Django Programming.
I have strong knowledge of mathematics, algorithms, computer logic and computer maths, Artificial Intelligence.
I have been using Javascript Framework such as Angular, React and Express.
My javascript Frameworks are Angular.js, React.js, Ember.js, Meteor.js, Backbone.js, Express.js and Ext.js.
My other experiences are:
Neo4j, HBase, Amazon DynamoDB, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL, Elastic Search, Amazon EC2, Amazon S3, MongoDB and TinkerPOP.

I always keep standard code format and focus on qualification.
I intend to qualification, smart interface, SEO optimization and beautiful coding style.

My have designed :
CRM Model, Workflow Model, Ecommerce model and Business Portal Model.

I have built Ecommerce sites, Advertising Sites, tourist Sites, and Business Portal WebSites.
I have experience with Rest API such as Google Map API, Amazon Adverting API, Shopzilla, BestBuy, 
Prosperent, Paypal API, CNET API, Stripe API and Twilio API.

I attach important to qualification and deadline.
I love to work with Cloud Development Tool Kit and Cross Platform Cloud IDE.
















Plz tell me about your company.
My experience
prepare documentation.
open profile on upwork








Is this Long term project?
I would 
Is there other parner?
What is your business hours?
Who is the team manager?
Who will check my work?
Are you born in USA?
How many developers do you have who already hired?
Is there only one database expert?



















